# Service Model
For an Enterprise to exist they have to be providing some sort of service, this service is delivered to the market in various forms based of the market/individual requirement. Enterprises create forms/Models which are used to deliver such services all based on the value they offer to the consumer, such can be said in cloud computing too, cloud computing in easy terms is basically using someone elses computer over the internet. services are  delivered to consumers over the internet in various models such as: Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Service as a Service.
## Software As A Service(SaaS):
In software as a Service, a cloud developer creates software application based on market need, for example a mailing application, in SaaS the consumer mostly are not interested in the underlining infrastructure for they are fully provisioned and maintained by the provider,  The provider takes care of all the hardware and traditional software, including middleware, application software, and security, he provides automatic software updates, and makes software available to its customers via the internet on a pay-as-you-go basis. The Consumer/Client only comes with their data and the rest are managed by the SaaS application. 
### Why Should You use a SaaS:
SaaS applictaions are created for consumers which who have specific requirement needed in their enterprise but do not see the need to hire a full development team because of either capacity issues or lack of finances. Imagine a small business owner who specilise in the sale of kitchen utensils, spending time and money creating an eccomerce application to sell to his 30 consumer/month buyers, it may be adviceable to use a SaaS apllication that is specifically built to handle sales.
### For example:
Esty, Salesforce, mailchimp, dropbox, gmail, box, e.t.c
### advantages of SaaS:
1. Lower up-front cost - SaaS is generally subscription-based and has no up-front licence fees resulting in lower initial costs. The SaaS provider manages the IT infrastructure that is running the software, which brings down fees for hardware and software maintenance.
2. Quick set up and deployment - SaaS application is already installed and configured in the cloud. This minimises common delays resulting from often lengthy traditional software deployment.
3. Easy upgrades - The SaaS providers deal with hardware and software updates, deploying upgrades centrally to the hosted applications and removing this workload and responsibility from you.
4. Accessibility - All you need to access a SaaS application is a browser and an internet connection. This is generally available on a wide range of devices and from anywhere in the world, making SaaS more accessible than the traditional business software installation.
5. Scalability - SaaS providers generally offer many subscription options and flexibility to change subscriptions as and when needed, eg when your business grows, or more users need to access the service.
### Disadvantages of Saas:
1. Lack of control - in-house software application gives businesses a higher degree of control than hosted solutions where control resides with a third party. Typically everyone has to use the latest version of the software application and cannot defer upgrades or changes in the features.
2. Security and data concerns - access management and the privacy of sensitive information is a major consideration around cloud and hosted services.
Limited range of applications - while SaaS is becoming more popular, there are still many applications that don't offer a hosted platform.
3. Connectivity requirement - since the SaaS model is based on web delivery, if your internet service fails, you will lose access to your software or data
4. Performance - SaaS may run at somewhat slower speeds than on-premise client or server applications, so it's worth keeping performance in mind your software isn't hosted on a local machine.
## Platform as a Service
Platform as a service (PaaS) is an enabler for software development where a service provider delivers a platform to customers so they can develop, run, and manage software applications without the need to build and maintain the underlying infrastructure themselves.Most platforms as a service include templates or build packs, which provide an opinion as to how certain types of applications should be built, typically around the popular 12-factor methodology. This is why PaaS options are often labeled “opinionated” and are best suited for new, StartUp applications. In the Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) model, developers essentially rent everything they need to build an application, relying on a cloud provider for development tools, infrastructure, and operating systems.
### Why should You use a PaaS:
From the Above defination of what a PaaS applicattion is, one can easily identify who uses a paas application, users can range from a single developer who wants to efficiently test out a side project and dont have the capital to fork out on premise servers, to huge enterprises that wants to ship out an application to the market quickly with no time for server set up on premise, also before a new product launch it can be difficult to scale the spacific traffic capicity of users which leads to over estimating or underestimating the servers to set up. but with a paas application, scaling can be handle automatically.
#### examples include: 
Heroku, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Windows Azure, Force.com, Google App Engine, OpenShift. 

### Advantages of PaaS
1. Faster Time to Market – automating many previous manual steps reduces time to market dramatically (months to hours in some cases)
2. Lower Cost – helping to resource share applications saves infrastructure costs, automation reduces labor (at least 50% reduction)
3. Lower Capital Commitment – start with small deployments and grow automatically as demand builds  (90% reduction)
4. Manage many applications easier – Application, Tenant, user management, security, load balancing common helps systematize otherwise duplicative functions.
5. More Responsive – automated deployment means being able to deploy changes faster, automated scaling means responding to demand faster
6. Best Practices – PaaS incorporates best practices for application management that systematizes and professionalizes the operation of many applications
7.  Increase Reuse – PaaS facilitates reusing services through various kinds of multi-tenancy, load balancing and resource sharing.  Reuse facilitates cost reduction as well as faster innovation.  Changing a reused service results in improving all those applications using it.   An Ecosystem PaaS may include collaborative functions to enhance reuse.
### Disadvantages of PaaS:
1. Security - All the data of applications are stored inside the provider's cloud database. This brings up confidential issues since the private and sensitive information can be viewed by the provider. As a result, it is the responsibility of the businesses to secure their applications by selecting a trustworthy provider. Otherwise, the existing information could be at risk.
2. Control - Users lack some controls over a PaaS solution. It is dependent on the providers capabilities. For an example, whenever the provider increases their pricing scheme similarly the applications could become expensive too. Therefore, it is important to choose your PaaS provider wisely.
3. Reliability - PaaS solutions often face reliability concerns. When using PaaS, users must be ready to face frequent downtimes. There can be power outages, disasters or other misfortunes all which can lead to devastating consequences. This can impact both business operations and customers who use the application. As a result, the users must perform their own backups to avoid data losses.
4. Compatibility - Not all the components are cloud enabled. Whatever the products offered by the PaaS provider is customized themselves. Due to this the infrastructures may face compatibility issues in a new environment. 
5. Integration - Similar to compatibility, each and every PaaS provider has their own integration process. Two different PaaS solutions cannot be integrated with each other. If tried contradictions can be seen. Moreover, once there is integration issues it is not an easy task to change the PaaS provider.
6. Locked-in Features - Some of the features offered by the PaaS may be completely irrelevant to the user. It can be a program, language or an interface that is locked-in. The users have no authority to change it. The only thing the users could do is either make changes to the application or rebuild it.

## Infrastructure as a Service
Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) is a standardized, highly automated offering in which computing resources owned by a service provider, complemented by storage and networking capabilities, are offered to customers on demand. Resources are scalable and elastic in near real time and metered by use. Self-service interfaces, including an API and a graphical user interface (GUI), are exposed directly to customers. Resources may be single-tenant or multitenant, and are hosted by the service provider or on-premises in a customer’s data center. Resources may include, servers, databases, networking etc. 
### Why Should you use IaaS:
IaaS is used in several cases. It is useful for backing up, storing, and recovering data and helps manage fluctuating storage needs. Setting up test and development environments is also faster and cheaper with IaaS.In addition, companies working with Big Data often use IaaS, which allows them to significantly increase their computing power. The BareMetal Setup of IaaS makes it perfect for organisations that only want to use a specific infrastructure to attach to their on premise, hybrid or cloud resources, for example if a company want to perform sql analysis on a specific block of data aws anthena can be used, aws s3 Glacier can be used to also run analysis on older transactions in an eccomerce application data.
#### Examples include:
Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Platform, Oracle Cloud Infrastructures, IBM and MicroSoft Azure   
### Advantages of IaaS:
1. Cost Saving - One of the benefits of IaaS is lower infrastructure costs; it offers the best in terms of cloud computing. By having IaaS no organization has to worry about maintaining hardware and network equipment, ensuring uptime, and replacing old equip. IaaS makes an economical option for start-ups and businesses testing new ideas as it saves the organization from sudden business spikes.
2. On-demand scalability - One of the greatest benefits of IaaS is that we don’t have to upgrade software, hardware, or troubleshoot equipment problems.
It can be scaled up and down quickly in response to a company’s requirements. IaaS providers have the most powerful storage, networking technology, and servers to accommodate the needs of their clients.
3. Have the Flexibility You Need - With the modern work demands greater flexibility, so by adopting IaaS it provides more flexibility to work as employees can access their files and data offsite also in need, they can connect to the virtual office easily and quickly.
4. Focus on business growth - The goal of every business is to grow. Growth will lead to more clients and more workload, which will lead to more data. With the growing business, you need to hire more staff to maintain the technology infrastructure. But with the IaaS, you need not worry because it uses up-to-date technology that easily scales up or scales down to meet your business’ needs. As infrastructure is managed by third-party service, you will be able to focus on other works.
### Disadvantages of IaaS
1. Security - The enterprise does not have any control over cloud security in an IaaS environment.They need to review the Cloud Service provider’s service level agreement (SLA) to help them understand its security obligations and thereby identifying gaps in their security coverage.
2. Lack of flexibility - Service providers maintain the software, but they do not upgrade the software for some of the businesses.
3. Technical problems - Organizations face some downtime with IaaS, and it will restrict their access to applications and data.
4. Over Dependency - Having IaaS in your organization means have a full dependency on the provider or third party for your data
5. Upgrade & Maintenance - The organization is solely responsible for any upgrades of software and maintenance of tools or data systems.
6. Virtualization Services & User-Privacy - IaaS depends on virtualization services. Also, restricts user-privacy & customization.